feat: include guide for using alternative databases with identity (#5574)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/self-managed/setup/guides/identity-oracledb.md

---
id: identity-oracledb

> title: "Using OracleDB with Identity for OIDC"

Reviewer: :wrench: I guess we should change the title to match the more generic content, i.e. not all Oracle specific?

Author: I made the title more generic

sidebar_label: "OracleDB with Identity for OIDC"
description: "Configure Identity to use OracleDB with OIDC"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

## Overview

This guide is intended for customers those internal policies or compliance requirements prevent the use of PostgreSQL.

## Scope

This documentation focuses solely on components of Camunda 8 that can operate without PostgreSQL. Components such as Optimize and Web Modeler, which require PostgreSQL for proper functionality, are excluded from this guide and should be disabled in environments where PostgreSQL is not used.

```yaml
postgresql:
  enabled: false
identityKeycloak:
  enabled: false
identityPostgresql:
  enabled: false
webModeler:
  enabled: false
webModelerPostgresql:
  enabled: false
optimize:
  enabled: false
```

## Versions

We tested with the following versions

| Camunda Version | Database Version       | Driver Version |
| --------------- | ---------------------- | -------------- |

> | 8.6.13          | Oracle 19C (Preferred) | 21.3.0.0       |

Reviewer 2: As its only tested with 8.6 - should we also only post it in the 8.6 guide or are we confident enough/ fine with this guide also being in 8.7 and 8.8?

Reviewer: In 8.8 it doesn't matter, because Identity is merged into Zeebe.

For 8.7, it must still work, so it's a chicken and egg thing. I would say let's document it anyway, and start testing it right away. But I suspect it will mostly just work once @panagiotisgts has forward ported it.

| 8.6.13          | SQL Server 2019        | 12.10.0.jre11  |

> ## Configuration

Reviewer: :thought_balloon: I find it confusing to have the configuration section 100% Oracle focused (including how to provision drivers), but then having the environment variables for MSSQL after.

:wrench: I would propose keeping the configuration section, but having it in 2 sections: one for Oracle, and one for MSSQL.

So something like:

```markdown
## Configuration

### Oracle

<Tabs groupId="featured" defaultValue="envVars" queryString values={
[
{label: 'Environment variables', value: 'envVars' },
{label: 'values.yaml', value: 'valuesYaml' },
{label: 'application.yaml', value: 'applicationYaml' },
]}>
<TabItem value="envVars">

...etc

### SQLServer

<Tabs groupId="featured" defaultValue="envVars" queryString values={
[
{label: 'Environment variables', value: 'envVars' },
{label: 'values.yaml', value: 'valuesYaml' },
{label: 'application.yaml', value: 'applicationYaml' },
]}>
<TabItem value="envVars">

...etc

```

Reviewer: And then getting rid of the env var section.

Reviewer: :x: For the Oracle version, while the provisioning of the drivers is implicitly done in the values.yaml, it's not clear to the user that:

1. If they don't use Helm, they must somehow provision the driver, and how to do this.
2. If they do use Helm, they may still have to update the URL to find the right driver, e.g. to update the version.

:wrench: We should have a clear section on driver provisioning before showing the values/config, I think. If you need help from the application side to explain why it's required, @panagiotisgts can help :)

Author: I added a section that explains that you might have to download the driver / how to map that in. I also removed the Env vars section  in favor of supplying the variables directly in the section above it.

---
id: identity-oracledb
title: "Using OracleDB with Identity for OIDC"
sidebar_label: "OracleDB with Identity for OIDC"
description: "Configure Identity to use OracleDB with OIDC"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

## Overview

> For those with company requirements preventing them from using postgresql.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide is intended for customers those internal policies or compliance requirements prevent the use of PostgreSQL.
```

## Scope

> For this guide, we will not focus on Optimize or Web Modeler, which normally would also connect to postgresql. These components should be disabled since they will not work without postgresql.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This documentation focuses solely on components of Camunda 8 that can operate without PostgreSQL. Components such as Optimize and Web Modeler, which require PostgreSQL for proper functionality, are excluded from this guide and should be disabled in environments where PostgreSQL is not used.
```
